**[POST]** IHatePeople79: I'm scared of just being myself, and even forming my own opinions.

It's so silly and stupid, but this is something I just can't seem to figure out. Everyone else seems to have no problem with forming their own viewpoints and opinions, and most are able to keep them, even if other people strongly disagree.

I can't seem to figure it out, for some reason.

Whenever I try to form my own viewpoints, I am always fearing what other people think, and, more importantly, I feel like  that whatever I think isn't valid unless someone else validates or agrees with it also.

I wish I could just form my own opinions without having the need for it to be validated by someone else.

**jackrr3**: It’s not silly or stupid. I struggle with the same thing. I don’t want to speak for you, but in my case it’s a strategy I acquired in childhood to feel safe. Sometimes as a kid, having a view that others actively disagreed with made me feel unlovable. Thus, I learned to harshly critique my own thoughts and feelings and to repress them if I think others will not like them. And this carried over into adulthood. So now I try to remind myself that this kind of thinking was once useful for feeling safe, but isn’t necessary anymore.  does that sound at all familiar?
**SizzleDebizzle**: Why is it bad for someone to disagree with you?
**  EstreaSagitarri**: My big ol ego of course!  It's actually very important to learn how to respectfully disagree and not personalize someone's opinion or belief about you
**Ambitious-Pipe2441**: Yeah, dude. I worry about that stuff too. We just might be a little harsher on ourselves than we are with others for some reason.
**  EstreaSagitarri**: My new thing is to stop spending so much effort censoring my weirdness and low key insanity (actually high key. Operetta Soprano levels of glass shattering chaos.) I will spew unhinged gibberish in front of God and everyone and that is my constitutional right.   Are you going crazy? Go crazy then, play the tape through(make sure you are safe.)   Release the madness.  Expel the demons
**EstreaSagitarri**: 1 F*CK what people think. You don't have to prove anything to anyone.   2 it's okay to just be wrong all over the place. Nobody knows what the hell they are doing, I'm pretty sure.   3 be nice to yourself. Your opinions are valid and not contingent on approval from The Crowd or The Cool Kids.    Maybe identify some core values that mean a lot to you personally and think about what it would look  for you to shed your fear and defend your values that unapologetically
**bum_thumper**: Always remember that you take up space in this world.  No matter how invisible you might feel, you take up space. Your DNA that is your physical self stays behind long after you aren't here anymore. A rock you threw had sediment that dispersed and gets placed, at any point in the future, because YOU threw that rock. You frightened a small critter to run into the area of a hawk that snatched it up, brought it home, and was sufficient enough to keep one of it's babies from starving to death. Your foot dragged a seed for miles and miles, and that seed planted and grew to be 50 ft tall... placed there, in that specific spot, because of you.  You are a creature that walks this earth, breathes it's air, eats it's food, drinks from it's water. Even when you don't feel like a single creature on this planet sees you, the Earth knows you are there. So scream at the sky, tumble over bar stools, laugh until you cough, pull your hair out, beat your chest like the fucking monkey you are.  You take up space. You are not worthless or meaningless. Even in the largest piles of human beings, a single one is beautiful. The chances of a specific sperms cell with specific DNA impregnating a specific egg cell housed in a specific body to make you exactly the way you are is statistically close to impossible, and yet here you are exactly how you are right at this second. Own that. That's you and your space. That's life right there.
**Life_Smartly**: Try journaling your thoughts. Random ones or on a particular topic. Set a timer maybe &amp; just write without stopping to read or think about it. Close it &amp; don't read it until the next day. Read without judgment. Nobody else will see it. Your opinions, when you're open to analyzing them, might show you why you feel insecure in sharing them. Search for ways to build up your self-confidence. Celebrate your growth.
**InnocentPerv93**: Well to clarify, are you actually afraid of FORMING your opinions? Or do you form your opinions and just are afraid of sharing them? Because you can form your opinions and just keep them to yourself.  However, I feel the the same way if it's the latter. I'm getting better though. It just depends on who you are with and how comfortable you get with them. Typically this requires you to visit or be around them multiple times, and an opportunity for more in-depth talks. Recently for me it was a camping trip with a group, and on one firepit night that's when I felt comfortable to share my opinions.  You just gotta get comfortable and wait for the right opportunity. If the problem is getting comfortable, all I can say is to try to push yourself and remember that the worst that can happen is someone disagrees with you and you don't get closer. And that's okay.
**  IHatePeople79**: I'd say it's the latter. I feel insecure mainly when I try to feel confident in it, even if I have good reason for thinking so.  I think this advice is very good!
**    InnocentPerv93**: I'm glad I could help you in any way. 😊
**thisOtherJustin**: Yeah, it does take courage to speak your mind when you feel like it would backfire on you.  But it's okay to have differing viewpoints. As long as your mind stays open, and everyone is respectful, it can lead to interesting conversation. You may have a point people aren't thinking about.  As long as your views aren't ridiculous or hateful, take the plunge, and give yourself some ups for being brave enough to say how you feel, independent of the feedback.
**txbredbookworm**: Sometimes I feel like that too.
